OSDOCS-17092: Enable monitoring of pending workloads (#103509)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/kueue-viewing-pending-workloads-clusterqueue.adoc

            "uid": "fd5d1796-f61d-402f-a4c8-cbda646e2676"
          }
        ]
      },
      "priority": 0,
      "localQueueName": "user-queue",
      "positionInClusterQueue": 1,
      "positionInLocalQueue": 1
    },
    {
      "metadata": {
        "name": "job-sample-job-t9b8m-4e770",
        "namespace": "default",
        "creationTimestamp": "2023-12-05T15:42:03Z",
        "ownerReferences": [
          {
            "apiVersion": "batch/v1",
            "kind": "Job",
            "name": "sample-job-t9b8m",
            "uid": "64c26c73-6334-4d13-a1a8-38d99196baa5"
          }
        ]
      },
      "priority": 0,
      "localQueueName": "user-queue",
      "positionInClusterQueue": 2,
      "positionInLocalQueue": 2
    }
  ]
}
----

You can pass the following optional query parameters:

limit <integer>:: 1000 (default). Indicates the maximum number of pending workloads that should be fetched.

offset <integer>:: 0 (default). Indicates the position of the first pending workload that should be fetched, starting from 0.

To view only one pending workload starting from position 0 in ClusterQueue run the following command:

[source,terminal]
----

> $ oc get --raw "/apis/visibility.kueue.x-k8s.io/v1beta1/clusterqueues/cluster-queue/pendingworkloads?limit=1&offset=1"

Author: Changed.

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * ai_workloads/kueue/monitoring-pending-workloads.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="viewing-pending-workloads-clusterqueue_{context}"]
= Viewing pending workloads in ClusterQueue

[role=”_abstract”]

> To view all pending workloads at the cluster level, administrators can use the ClusterQueue visibility endpoint of Kueue's visibility API. This endpoint returns a list of all workloads currently waiting for admission by that ClusterQueue.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To view all pending workloads at the cluster level, administrators can use the `ClusterQueue` object visibility endpoint of Kueue's visibility API. This endpoint returns a list of all workloads currently waiting for admission by that ClusterQueue.
```

Reviewer: https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/698cf3ec755ffe532212f2d0eba7ae2a0061656b/contributing_to_docs/doc_guidelines.adoc#api-object-formatting:~:text=System%20term/item%2C%20user%20names%2C%20unique%20or%20example%20names%20for%20individual%20API%20objects/resources

> To view all pending workloads at the cluster level, administrators can use the `ClusterQueue` object visibility endpoint of Kueue's visibility API. This endpoint returns a list of all workloads currently waiting for admission by that ClusterQueue.

Author: changed.

> A ClusterQueue is a cluster-scoped resource that governs a pool of resources, such as pods, CPU, memory, and hardware accelerators. Use ClusterQueues to define usage limits usage limits and order of consumption. You can also define the API Priority and Fairness (APF) rules across the multiple ClusterQueues in the cluster.

Reviewer 2: _".....You can also define the API Priority and Fairness (APF) rules across the multiple ClusterQueues in the cluster."_
The relationship between Kueue's ClusterQueue and Kubernetes' API Priority and Fairness (APF) is indirect. I was thinking if we should explain about it but, to the point here, I guess would be better just to remove this piece.

Author: Changed short description to "To view all pending workloads at the cluster level, administrators can use the ClusterQueue visibility endpoint of Kueue's visibility API. This endpoint returns a list of all workloads currently waiting for admission by that ClusterQueue."

Reviewer 2: Here I guess it needs to start with capital letter.. "To view..." .. and there's a missing " at the end.

> A ClusterQueue is a cluster-scoped resource that governs a pool of resources, such as pods, CPU, memory, and hardware accelerators. Use ClusterQueues to define usage limits usage limits and order of consumption. You can also define the API Priority and Fairness (APF) rules across the multiple ClusterQueues in the cluster.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A ClusterQueue is a cluster-scoped resource that governs a pool of resources, such as pods, CPU, memory, and hardware accelerators. Use ClusterQueues to define usage limits and order of consumption. You can also define the Fair Sharing rules across the multiple ClusterQueues in the cluster.
```

Reviewer 3: Even better is to remove this part, which I don't think is necessary:
`Use ClusterQueues to define usage limits and order of consumption. You can also define the Fair Sharing rules across the multiple ClusterQueues in the cluster.`

Author: Removed.

      "positionInClusterQueue": 0,
      "positionInLocalQueue": 0
    },
    {
      "metadata": {
        "name": "job-sample-job-jg9dw-5f1a3",
        "namespace": "default",
        "creationTimestamp": "2023-12-05T15:42:03Z",
        "ownerReferences": [
          {
            "apiVersion": "batch/v1",
            "kind": "Job",
            "name": "sample-job-jg9dw",
            "uid": "fd5d1796-f61d-402f-a4c8-cbda646e2676"
          }
        ]
      },
      "priority": 0,
      "localQueueName": "user-queue",
      "positionInClusterQueue": 1,
      "positionInLocalQueue": 1
    },
    {
      "metadata": {
        "name": "job-sample-job-t9b8m-4e770",
        "namespace": "default",
        "creationTimestamp": "2023-12-05T15:42:03Z",
        "ownerReferences": [
          {
            "apiVersion": "batch/v1",
            "kind": "Job",
            "name": "sample-job-t9b8m",
            "uid": "64c26c73-6334-4d13-a1a8-38d99196baa5"
          }
        ]
      },
      "priority": 0,
      "localQueueName": "user-queue",
      "positionInClusterQueue": 2,
      "positionInLocalQueue": 2
    }
  ]
}
----
+
You can pass the following optional query parameters:
+

> limit <integer>:: 1000 (default). Indicates the maximum number of pending workloads that should be fetched.

Author: changed.

+

> offset <integer>:: 0 (default). Indicates the position of the first pending workload that should be fetched, starting from 0.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
offset <integer>:: 0 is the default. Specifies the position of the first pending workload that should be fetched, starting from 0.
```

Author: changed.
